now Josiah had kept a Passover to the
Lord in Jerusalem and they slaughtered
the Passover lambs on the fourteenth day
of the first month and he set the
priests in their duties and encouraged
them for the service of the house of the
Lord then he said to the Levites who
taught all Israel who were holy to the
Lord puts the holy ark in the house
which Solomon the son of David king of
Israel built it shall no longer be a
burden on your shoulders now serve the
Lord your God and his people Israel
prepare yourselves according to your
father's houses according to your
divisions following the written
instruction of David king of Israel
and the written instruction of Solomon
his son and stand in the Holy Place
according to the divisions of the
father's houses of your brethren the lay
people and according to the division of
the father's house of the Levites so
slaughter the Passover offerings
consecrate yourselves and prepare them
for your brethren that they may do
according to the word of the Lord by the
hand of Moses then Josiah gave the
laypeople lambs and young goats from the
flock all for Passover offerings for all
who were present to the number of 30,000
as well as 3,000 cattle these were from
the Kings possessions and his leaders
gave willingly to the people to the
priests and the Levites yo Chaya
Zechariah and Jehiel rulers of the house
of God gave to the priests for the
Passover offerings 2,600 from the flock
and 300 cattle also can Anaya his
brothers she mayor and Nathanael and
hash abaya
and Jil and Jezebel chief of the Levites
gave to the Levites for Passover
offerings five thousand from the flock
and five hundred cattle
so the service was prepared and the
priests stood in their places and the
Levites in their divisions according to
the Kings command and they slaughtered
the Passover offerings and the priests
sprinkled the blood with their hands
while the Levites skinned the animals
then they remove the burnt offerings
that they might give them to the
divisions of the father's houses of the
lay people to offer to the Lord as it is
written in the book of Moses and so they
did with the cattle also they roasted
the Passover offerings with fire
according to the ordinance but the other
holy offerings they boiled in pots in
cauldrons and in pans and divided them
quickly among all the laypeople and
afterward they prepared portions for
themselves and for the priests because
the priests the sons of Aaron were busy
in offering burnt offerings and fat
until night therefore the Levites
prepared portions for themselves and for
the priests the sons of air and the
singers the sons of Asaph were in their
places according to the command of David
Asaph Heymann and juju 'then the king's
seer also the gatekeepers were at each
gate they did not have to leave their
position because their brethren the
Levites prepared portions for them so
all the service of the Lord was prepared
the same day to keep the Passover and to
offer burnt offerings on the altar of
the Lord according to the command of
King Josiah and the children of Israel
who were present kept the Passover at
that time and the feast of unleavened
bread for seven days
there have been no Passover kept in
Israel like that since the days of
Samuel the Prophet and none of the kings
of Israel had kept such a Passover as
Josiah kept with the priests and the
Levites or Judah and Israel who were
present and the inhabitants of Jerusalem
in the 18th year of the reign of Josiah
this Passover was camped after all this
when Josiah had prepared the temple Niqo
king of egypt came up to fight against
khakha mesh by the Euphrates and Josiah
went out against him but he sent
messengers to him what have I to do with
you king of Judah I have not come
against you this day but against the
house with which I have war for God
commanded me to make haste refrain from
meddling with God who was with me lest
he destroy you nevertheless Josiah would
not turn his face from him by disguised
herself so that he might fight with him
and did not heed the words of Nico from
the mouth of God so he came to fight in
the valley of Megiddo and the archers
shot King Josiah
and the king said to his servants take
me away for I am severely wounded his
servants therefore took him out of that
chariot and put him in the second
chariot that he had and they brought him
to Jerusalem so he died and was buried
in one of the tombs of his father's and
all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for
Josiah Jeremiah also lamented for Josiah
and to this day all the singing men and
the singing women speak of Josiah in
their lamentations they made it a custom
in Israel and indeed they are written in
the laments now the rest of the acts of
Josiah and his goodness according to
what was written in the law of the Lord
and his deeds from first to last indeed
they are written in the book of the
kings of Israel and Judah